# Eurovision, a never-ending variety

If it’s May, it’s Eurovision time! One of the most important events for me took place this year between 10th and 14th of May in Torino, Italy. 40 songs, 2 semifinals, 1 grand finale, 3 sometimes clumsy, sometimes funny presenters, 200 jury members and 161 million viewers were needed in order to choose the country which deserved a river of applauses this year, Ukraine. 

“Stefania”, the winning song which mixes modern rap and classic Ukranian folk, was initially written to honor the mother of one of the band’s members but became rapidly a representative song for the current difficult times of this country and their hope for a better future. Even though Eurovision should be a competition focused only on the participating songs and their interpreters, it is not a secret that it became impossible to stay always away from what is happening around. In the past there was a huge support given by the televoters to different causes, like the LGBT rights or the fight against bullying, but this year there was an unseen gathering of sentiments for Ukraine. This materialized in 439 points given by the televoters out of a maximum possible of 468, sending them straight to the history as the richest country from the accumulated points perspective. This amount was more than enough to overcome the gap between them and the UK, Sweden and Spain, the top 3 countries based on the jury’s votes. 

Finishing second this year, the UK could be considered a spaceman because it managed to get out from the depth in which it was last year, when it finished the last one with 0 points from the jury and 0 points from the televoters. It got to first place in the jury’s preferences with a proper rocket, not with a little train, as Moldova managed to get to the second place in the televoter’s preferences. 

Spain’s entry this year was a perfect example of one of the two main types of songs which are always present at Eurovision: energetic but not SloMo, catchy but kitschy, perfect for the commercial radio and discos, the guilty pleasure for many people around Europe and also around the world, for sure. This style of songs could make even boys to cry, either because they are too funny or too ridiculous (Have you ever thought about giving a banana to a wolf? Well, Norway thought about this!). However, songs like the one brought by Portugal and Italy are on the opposite side: slow, melancholic, putting into the spotlight the saudade, giving shivers at every listening, in which someone misses and wants to hold close someone else, there is always love involved and the intention to die together is one of the main wishes. 
In addition to this, there are always some niche songs which don’t fit into any of these two categories and can be considered by many the most interesting entries. This year was Serbia’s turn to deliver a song which emphasized the importance of both mens sana and corpore sano, especially during time like the COVID-19 pandemic which brought even the Eurovision contest to a pause, being cancelled in 2020 for the first time since its first edition in 1956. As always, there is the group of countries which snapped and concepts like Jezebel, Fulenn, Llámame or Ela didn’t manage to get the expected reactions (Finland, France, Romania and Cyprus, I am looking at you now...). But they have to breathe in, accept that this year they were who they were, lock the past in a box and throw away the key and hope that for the next show they will not be blocked in a circle but they will have the winning halo everyone wishes for. This will happen only if they will behave like good kids, eat their salads and pay attention to the current trends in music which are always changing as fast as a stripper changes the mood of the viewers.

According to the rules and to the tradition, the winning country has the honor to organize the following year’s edition of Eurovision Song Contest. This has never always been the same and it will probably not happen also next year. On 16th of June 2022, the main organizer of the event, European Broadcast Unit, announced that Ukraine could not fulfill the requirements and the discussions with the UK, as the runner-up, will start. With this announcement, the lights of the 2022 edition of Eurovision can be considered off now, as a complete cycle, starting with the national selections, continuing with the actual competition and ending with the decision of the next host, is now over. Soon, the Eurovision sun will rise again and a new edition will bring new artists, new songs and new stories. However, only the passing of the time will decide who of this year’s participants will make it to the international charts and will become rockstars and who will fade to the black.

P.S. If there is one concept which Eurovision brings to another level year by year, that would be, for sure, the variety. The genres, dances, stories, instruments, languages, shows, effects, reactions are always surprising, but maybe the most original ones are the song titles. Speaking of this, the titles of all the 40 songs from this year were included directly or indirectly as the skeleton of this article. Pretty amazing what could be done with them, right?
