&nbsp;

# The Story of My Life

It all started in Norway, six years ago. It is quite unexpected for someone like me to have the life start in a country like Norway. Because there you can feel the cold wind whispering both in the nature but also in the people's souls. And this is definitely not something which I very fond of. But these days, everything is possible. 

I was waiting. I have been waiting already for quite some time for that moment. For THE moment. And I was not the only one. There were many like me. Some of them were part of my close family, my brothers and my sisters, whereas some of them were not. But in that situation, in that gigantic place where a lot of souls were gathered, souls which were not fortunate enough to have a loving family from day zero, everyone becomes part of the same family. Until the moment when someone passes next to us and looks at us. We can feel the curious eyes and we can distinguish between the interested ones and the passersby. Between the ones who are really decided to make the step which will change the life of one of us but also their own life and the ones who are there just to spend a gloomy evening and to add a hashtag on Instagram. And in that moment, when we can feel that one of THEM is next to us, we become agitated. We want to show off, to prove what we have and what we can do. We want to do this so much, that we mentally snap. We become silent and we freeze. Ironically, this suits perfectly for a country like Norway. In that moment, we cannot move at all and the only way to be in the spotlight is very superficial: based on the way how we look. Rarely, there are some people who are looking deeper than this, hoping to save and to be saved, not only to use and to impress. 
